# MasterThesis_CarDamageRecognition
This repository contains the code used for my Master Thesis

# Contact
Contact me at romankastl@gmail.com for additional information

# Abstract
Reporting a property damage claim within the context of a car accident can be a fastidious and long-lasting process (McNamara & Rejda, 2017, p. 131). Many interactions between the stakeholders involved in the accident, such as the owner of the damaged car, the insurers, and authorities can be necessary to reach a settlement. Many parts of a traditional claim reporting process require manual inputs and are based on human-performed assessments. However, within time, technological developments allowed to improve the whole claim process efficiency. In this paper, the application of Artificial Intelligence, more precisely Convolutional Neural Networks, for partial automatization of damage assessments and cost estimations is explored. The goal of the model developed in this paper is to classify whether a car is damaged or not and if so to locate and rate the severity of the damage. This is done by using three separate modules which constitute a workflow altogether. This integrated workflow takes an image as input and returns three predictions, one for each module. Transfer learning is actively used to build an independent model for each of the workflow's modules. Based on this approach, the innovative, new, and scalable architecture, EfficientNet-B0, is proposed and compared to other architectures covered by the existing literature (VGG16, Xception, ResNet50V2). The comparison shows that the best performances are obtained with the proposed architecture EfficientNet-B0. Using fine-tuning, the model reaches a validation accuracy of 94% for the classification of damage/no-damage, 76% for the damage location, and 73% for damage severity. In addition to the accuracy's performances, the research also shows that the EfficientNet family of models is lighter, faster and gives more room than other architectures for further improvement. The application of Convolutional Neural Networks in the claim management process of motor insurance shows a strong potential for costs savings and speed improvement. In turn, this increase in efficiency can contribute to strengthening the customer’s experience. However, the inherent opaqueness of Artificial Intelligence represents a great challenge for its application to highly regulated industries requiring transparency in their operations. 
